README.md, before:

# vmWare exporter application

See ``src`` for the application code.

## Building Docker image

The Python 3 based [Dockerfile](Dockerfile) uses an Alpine Linux base image
and expects the application source code to be volume mounted at `/application`.

We're using multistage Docker build for running unittest as part of the Docker build process.

The last statement shows how we are running the application via `uwsgi` with 2
worker processes.

To build the image:

```
$ docker build -t levtar/vmware_exporter -f Dockerfile .
```

## Running the application

We can just run the web application as follows:

```
$ docker run  -ti --rm -p 5000:5000 --name vmware_exporter levtar/vmware_exporter
```

## Bringing up the exporter application, along with prometheus

The [docker-compse.yml](docker-compose.yml) brings up the `webapp` service which is our web application
using the image `levtar/vmware_exporter` we built above. The [docker-compose-infra.yml](docker-compose-infra.yml)
file brings up the `prometheus` service and also starts the `grafana` service which
is available on port 3000. The config directory contains a `prometheus.yml` file
which sets up the targets for prometheus to scrape. The scrape configuration 
looks as follows:

```
# my global config
global:
  scrape_interval:     15s # By default, scrape targets every 15 seconds.
  evaluation_interval: 15s # By default, scrape targets every 15 seconds.
  # scrape_timeout is set to the global default (10s).

# A scrape configuration containing exactly one endpoint to scrape:
scrape_configs:
  - job_name: 'vmware_exporter'

    # metrics_path defaults to '/metrics'
    # scheme defaults to 'http'.
    static_configs:
        - targets: ['vmware_exporter:5000']
```

Prometheus scrapes our vmware_exporter application on port 5000.
Since these services are running via `docker-compose`, `vmware_exporter` automatically resolves to the IP of the webapp container. 

To bring up all the services:

```
$ docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose-infra.yml up
```
After running the docker compose you may access Grafana at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)
and build your dashboard, which may look like this:
![](resources/vmware_exporter.png)

## Deployment to Google Cloud Platform (GCP)

The following procedure is assuming that you are using GCP for running the k8s cluster.

## Cluster provisioning with Terraform
Terraform is used for GCE cluster provisioning.
The cluster is running at single node for cost-effectiveness reason.
To provision kubernetes cluster, run the following from within 'terraform' directory:
- `terraform init` to get the plugins
- `terraform plan` to see the infrastructure plan
- `terraform apply` to apply the infrastructure build
- `terraform destroy` to destroy the built infrastructure (only run at the end of the demo for the cluster cleanup)

**Note:** Due to bug in kubernetes provider `terraform destroy` is failing to remove namespaces and their respective cluster.

## Build docker image for GKE
In order to deploy the vmware_exporter application to GKE we need to build and deploy the Docker image to the Google container registry.
The process should run as part of CI/CD pipeline.
Make sure to replace the PROJECT_ID and BUILD_VERSION with respective values.
```
set PROJECT_ID=<PROJECT_ID>
set BUILD_VERSION=<BUILD_VERSION>
docker build -t gcr.io/${PROJECT_ID}/vmware_exporter:${BUILD_VERSION} .
docker push gcr.io/${PROJECT_ID}/vmware_exporter:${BUILD_VERSION}
```

## Install vmware_exporter application at the k8s environment
For sake of demonstration production release is using GCP load-balancer.
To install helm release, run the following from within 'helm' directory:
- `helm -n production install vmware . -f values.yaml`.  
**Note:** Helm's application access URL notes should be disregarded. Instead of this use bellow instructions.  
Access the vmware_exporter application by running bellow commands.
- `export LOADBALANCER_IP=$(kubectl get --namespace production -o jsonpath="{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}" services vmware)`
- `curl $LOADBALANCER_IP/metrics`

Prometheus is the only service that is going to scrap the vmware_exporter.
I don't see reason for defining the ingress controller.

- `helm -n production uninstall vmware` to uninstall the chart

## Additional resources
vmware_exporter is running at [http://34.68.234.150/metrics](http://34.68.234.150/metrics).
The service will be available due 07/07/2020

Commit message:

Add documentation for deployment with ClusterIP

README.md, after:

# vmWare exporter application

See ``src`` for the application code.

## Building Docker image

The Python 3 based [Dockerfile](Dockerfile) uses an Alpine Linux base image
and expects the application source code to be volume mounted at `/application`.

We're using multistage Docker build for running unittest as part of the Docker build process.

The last statement shows how we are running the application via `uwsgi` with 2
worker processes.

To build the image:

```
$ docker build -t levtar/vmware_exporter -f Dockerfile .
```

## Running the application

We can just run the web application as follows:

```
$ docker run  -ti --rm -p 5000:5000 --name vmware_exporter levtar/vmware_exporter
```

## Bringing up the exporter application, along with prometheus

The [docker-compse.yml](docker-compose.yml) brings up the `webapp` service which is our web application
using the image `levtar/vmware_exporter` we built above. The [docker-compose-infra.yml](docker-compose-infra.yml)
file brings up the `prometheus` service and also starts the `grafana` service which
is available on port 3000. The config directory contains a `prometheus.yml` file
which sets up the targets for prometheus to scrape. The scrape configuration 
looks as follows:

```
# my global config
global:
  scrape_interval:     15s # By default, scrape targets every 15 seconds.
  evaluation_interval: 15s # By default, scrape targets every 15 seconds.
  # scrape_timeout is set to the global default (10s).

# A scrape configuration containing exactly one endpoint to scrape:
scrape_configs:
  - job_name: 'vmware_exporter'

    # metrics_path defaults to '/metrics'
    # scheme defaults to 'http'.
    static_configs:
        - targets: ['vmware_exporter:5000']
```

Prometheus scrapes our vmware_exporter application on port 5000.
Since these services are running via `docker-compose`, `vmware_exporter` automatically resolves to the IP of the webapp container. 

To bring up all the services:

```
$ docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose-infra.yml up
```
After running the docker compose you may access Grafana at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)
and build your dashboard, which may look like this:
![](resources/vmware_exporter.png)

## Deployment to Google Cloud Platform (GCP)

The following procedure is assuming that you are using GCP for running the k8s cluster.

## Cluster provisioning with Terraform
Terraform is used for GCE cluster provisioning.
The cluster is running at single node for cost-effectiveness reason.
To provision kubernetes cluster, run the following from within 'terraform' directory:
- `terraform init` to get the plugins
- `terraform plan` to see the infrastructure plan
- `terraform apply` to apply the infrastructure build
- `terraform destroy` to destroy the built infrastructure (only run at the end of the demo for the cluster cleanup)

**Note:** Due to bug in kubernetes provider `terraform destroy` is failing to remove namespaces and their respective cluster.

## Build docker image for GKE
In order to deploy the vmware_exporter application to GKE we need to build and deploy the Docker image to the Google container registry.
The process should run as part of CI/CD pipeline.
Make sure to replace the PROJECT_ID and BUILD_VERSION with respective values.
```
set PROJECT_ID=<PROJECT_ID>
set BUILD_VERSION=<BUILD_VERSION>
docker build -t gcr.io/${PROJECT_ID}/vmware_exporter:${BUILD_VERSION} .
docker push gcr.io/${PROJECT_ID}/vmware_exporter:${BUILD_VERSION}
```

## Install vmware_exporter application at the k8s environment

The exporter is intended for by Prometheus, which supposed to be part of the same k8s cluster, and thus doesn't need 
external route. For this reason I would expose the exporter service as ClusterIP.
`kubectl` manifest for deployment of vmware_exporter as a service with CLusterIP could be found at
[vmware-exporter.yml](service\vmware-exporter.yml).
For deploying the vmware_exporter as a service with ClusterIP run `kubectl apply -f service\vmware-exporter.yml`.

For sake of demonstration I've decided to expose the vmware_exporter using GCP LoadBalancer.
Helm chart has been created using `helm create` command and may include some redundant code.

To install helm release, run the following from within 'helm' directory:
- `helm -n production install vmware . -f values.yaml`.  
**Note:** Helm's application access URL notes should be disregarded. Instead of this use bellow instructions.  
Access the vmware_exporter application by running bellow commands.
- `export LOADBALANCER_IP=$(kubectl get --namespace production -o jsonpath="{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}" services vmware)`
- `curl $LOADBALANCER_IP/metrics`

- `helm -n production uninstall vmware` to uninstall the chart

### Additional resources
For demonstration purpose I've left the vmware_exporter is running at 
[http://34.68.234.150/metrics](http://34.68.234.150/metrics). 

The service will be available due 07/07/2020.
